I have hidden something.
We're gonna do this app three times this.
Yeah, this is round one,
there's three rounds.
I keep moving the problem around, right?
If you grab main, you won't find an issue
cuz there's nothing hidden in main.
But if you grab the initial
slowdown exercise,
I've hidden a performance
issue that you need to find.
The game itself is terrible.
The game itself is, Mark and
I were joking about hex codes that
make words and there was a website.
And so I grab that and
then this basically picks a random color,
a completely random color of I
guess 16 to the sixth colors.
And by staring at the color,
you have to guess what the hex code is.
You're not going to win the game,
don't play the game, right?
This was me when I should have been doing
more important things during my day,
thinking this would be a fun thing to
start making that I realized I should not
be doing this my time.
And I stopped, I put the performance
problem in and I moved on with my life.
But there is a performance problem that
should, and you enthrall your computer
if it's like yeah, it's still
fasten you have a great computer.
But typing that in Input
field should be painful.
And so spend a little bit of time, and
we'll just talk about what's happening.
And I'm gonna add it to
other places on you later.
So it'll be fun.
All right, we are doing this.
So it's actually not
hiding that component,
there will be stuff hiding
that component later.
This one is actually
hidden in plain sight.
Did anyone find it?
I just found it.
>> I think it has to deal
with generate random color.
>> Yes, it does have to do with
generate random color, right?
The trick is, I guess there's two things.
So find where I put the same
thing that slows us down, right?
That's one, and then how do we deal
with it is I think the second challenge.
So it is hiding in
generate random color and
I have produced many
a performance issue in my day.
This is like I was working on something at
work to where it's we had to put something
into an error state, right?
When you're trying to intentionally create
performance issues is a lot harder.
But where's it hiding, they will always
be, why just block the main thread for
a hot minute, right?
But then the question is why, yeah?
>> I think it has to do with that it's
an arrow function, and I think when it
causes the render to application,
it changes the identity in the use stages.
This is not was there before that and
recalls it.
Most importantly it doesn't just
record once judging from the profiler,
close it twice.
>> So everything will roughly,
if you look at the console for
those things will happen twice.
Yeah, that is the right thread and
it's even a little bit simpler than
that which is, is it a react issue or is
JavaScript just being JavaScript, right?
Which is okay, it goes,
it parses this first line, right?
And it's like JavaScript still
evaluates all the code, right?
And says yo, generate random number.
And so it does and it passes under U
state, and even this case reactions, like
I already have the correct answer that
I'm holding on to between the keystrokes.
Cuz obviously we don't wanna
have it handy new one in, right?
If the answer change and
the color change whatever keystroke,
this will leave you in a worse
game than it already is, right?
The issue is that as the parser and the
compiler is reading through all this stuff
is like, I gotta go through the the return
value of this function is, right?
And a little thing like that can
be what slows up the works, right?
So in this case,
it turns out that in the same way,
the SEC correct answer you
might have seen you can do.
And you can give it a value, right?
Yeah.
But in the same way the setter also,
[INAUDIBLE] that's fine.
Can take a function
which is previous value.
I'm not gonna hit this code.
And then does something to it to
get to what it should set it to.
You can set, you stay with a value, or
you can give it a function that
it should call the first time.
So by taking this and wrapping it
in an anonymous function, right?
It doesn't immediately get
executed by JavaScript, right?
The same way if I have made
this mistake this week,
where you're writing code,
you're writing code, you're writing code.
You put it on change handler,
you just pass in the function and
that you that eventually should be called
in there, and it executes immediately,
which then it's like a set count or
a set whatever you have.
And now you've spun yourself into
an infinite loop before react cuts you
off after a 1001 reminders.
That's why we put event handlers
in anonymous functions, right?
It's that aren't immediately called so
that we can pass this in,
it will call it the first time and
then set it.
And now JavaScript is good to see
an anonymous function pass by and it won't
immediately execute it, and thereby
your slow code path is not triggered.
>> Does calling state dispatch within
the main render function logic have any
performance problems?
The one in application jsx
is being set with a boolean.
So it won't run into pass
by reference issues, but
are there any other considerations
we should worry about?
>> So the question was basically,
so we have it with this one, but
what if these are all primitives, right?
And so they are value equality.
Even if we had an object,
it is taking it the first time,
that's why I said before where like react
uses fibers to kind of keep track of
the kind of a history line of a hook,
it's not looking for that value anymore.
It has it stored whatever you set
it to through other interactions.
So even it's not doing an equality check
on future runthroughs of this component,
but the problem was this code was
executing before it even got in to
react, right?
JavaScript itself, the JavaScript
compiler was stepping in, running,
generate random color, producing
a random color, which was expensive, and
then handing it to U state to be ignored,
Mark.
>> Could you please step back and show how
we can see this performance issue first?
>> Yeah.
>> Because it feels like we're fixing
a problem that we haven't measured.
>> Absolutely, I mean, one of the best
ways I fix it already, hold on.
Can't measure the fixed one,
we got to go in.
>> And also, bump the block for
a little bit to make it even more obvious.
>> We're gonna bump or throttle,
yeah, both I think are options.
Let's throttle,
let's use the tools, right?
Rather than increase the fake thing,
let's use the real tools in this case.
All right, so go into performance, right?
We've got a bunch of different
ways we can handle this, right?
So we can go ahead and
start by looking at the profiler, right?
But like I said,
one of the heuristics, I think for me,
one of the places where I immediately know
that I have a problem is the one place.
I think what Google has,
I think it's rail, and
it's like there's a set of heuristics for
how you actually think about performance,
and one of the ones is response time.
The moment you are interacting with
any way, and it is feeling slow,
is a time to start looking, right?
And so
in this case we could theoretically, And
I'm even typing, I took forever to, So
you can see as they're coming in, we're
taking 304 milliseconds to render, right?
And so when you have a chart that even in
and of itself is showing every keystroke,
we've got these incredibly
long 300 milliseconds.
You're aiming for 16, right?
Now granted, yes, this is a purposely
slow find the react quirk that made
this happen, or in this case a JavaScript
quirk that react didn't need or want.
But we can kind of see it in the tools.
And then the other great way to do this,
is you can actually see that I got
a little heads up over here as well.
That's cuz I have a CPU throttling,
let's see.
The other way that I will very
frequently do this, and again this
kind of goes to Alex's question,
of which set of tools do you use?
Scroll down,
is a really great way is Chromium, right?
So depending on which browser, will flag
anything that it thinks is problematic,
literally with a red flag, right?
And so if you run a profiler, and you
see anything with this little red thing,
it's hey, that took way too long, right?
And I'm just gonna tell you now,
there are things that you didn't
think were bad that it still feels as bad,
and it will hurt your feelings.
So be aware of that, right?
But we got a 300 millisecond
lag in application rendering.
So we can tell it's pretty high up there.
If application was this big, wide bar, but
underneath it, there was another equally
wide bar, which when we find the bug,
not to spoil it for you, you will see.
But that kind of shows you the depth
of that flame graph and how wide.
It shows you how deep in
the component hierarchy it is.
The other thing is you can
see that we are peeking.
And again, this is intentionally
blocking the main thread, right?
But you can see we get flags here,
and as I said before,
you wouldn't see this in production.
Application, and
then generate random color, right?
Those wouldn't have their
names in the production build.
It is the providing of all
that information, which again,
doing stuff is slower
than not doing stuff.
So in production,
it does not do these things technically.
Unless again,
you work on a developer tool.
A lot of times your customers
are not the ones debugging and
triaging your performance issues for
you, right?
So you don't provide them all that
stuff because it slows it down.
But for us, we can actually see what
function was the one kind of calling it in
this sense, and get a sense there as well.
But yeah, the red flags and
looking at that CPU graph, but
then also seeing which component it is.
And as we play the game a little bit more,
we'll see it a little bit more
if it's hiding down a level.
You'll see where the wide
part of the flame graph was.
You can kind of get a sense of what is,
this one was literally the second
line of the root thing.
So it is a long and sad,
but relatively simple graph.
>> You had mentioned 60 milliseconds.
Is that like a heuristic
we're trying to head?
>> Yeah, that's a heuristic.
>> Okay.
>> Yeah, I think the heuristic is
refresh rate of 60 frames a second,
a second divided by 60 16.66666,
and so on, so forth, right?
And so beating that doesn't really do any
good cuz yeah, the screen refreshes 120.
That is why the heuristic exists.
It depends like most things, right?
I work at a company that
also needs to make money,
and me getting it from 20 to 16 is not
always gonna get me adulation, right?
And so there is what is what we should
aim for and then what is practical.
So we continue getting a paycheck as well.
>> Kind of along those same lines,
a number that I circulate with Adam,
cuz he works on one of the teams that
I work with, is generally speaking,
humans can't perceive anything
less than 50 milliseconds.
So If you have a single render
cycle that takes 50 milliseconds,
you're probably okay.
But it definitely adds up if you get in
that render loop and you stack them up.
>> I forget what the threshold for
the Chrome tools yelling at me is,
I know that 300 obviously passed it.
But I don't remember off the top
of my head what it is, Mark.
>> Maybe you're gonna do this, but could
you fix it and then let's see it again?
>> And Alex, why didn't you ask
me a question while I fix it?
>> Yeah, so I think this was a great
example when we actually need to combine
the React profiler, and it looks like
when the issue is with the GS itself.
This [INAUDIBLE] because the the React
profiler wasn't particularly specific in
terms of where-
>> Exactly, showed you what component
it was in, but it didn't show you in
the same way that this did, right?
All the fixing rerenders in the world is
not gonna save if you from your slow,
just regular JavaScript, right?
But yeah,
using them together will then help,
at least you find as a concerted effort.
Let's do this one first, let's go in here.
So I added the anonymous function.
All right, and now you can see,
I don't have those long peaks, right?
The probably initial R render
still somewhat unhappy with,
cuz it does call generate
random number ones, right?
That function is still slow, right?
So I do get yelled at over there, but
you can see that subsequent rerenders
are not calling the issue in this case.
And let's do it,
let's pull up the, As well.
All right, in this case now we're
at 2.1 milliseconds, right?
And we are probably the only time that
those are probably in existence, but
probably so tiny in comparison.
They can make a bigger appearance
in a 2.1 millisecond line than they
can in a 300 millisecond line.
But yeah, are there as well.
I get these are kind of, you can see
game input was changed at this point.
You can see what changed each time.
Expensive component is not expensive yet.
It will be, and you can guess
where I'm moving the problem next.
But next you don't get to just
like figure out where it is.
You got to do something
with the component, and so
it's like I can name it a little
bit more obvious next time.